cloud: refine the kafka changefeed docs (#10130)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/changefeed-sink-to-apache-kafka.md

---
title: Sink to Apache Kafka
Summary: Learn how to create a changefeed to stream data from TiDB Cloud to Apache Kafka.
---

# Sink to Apache Kafka

This document describes how to create a changefeed to stream data from TiDB Cloud to Apache Kafka.

> **Note:**
>
> For [Developer Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#developer-tier), the changefeed feature is unavailable.

## Prerequisites

### Network

Make sure that your TiDB cluster can connect to the Apache Kafka service.

> If your Apache Kafka service is in an AWS VPC that has no internet access, take the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Apache Kafka service is in an AWS VPC that has no Internet access, take the following steps:
```

1. [Set up a VPC peering connection](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md) between the VPC of the Apache Kafka service and your TiDB cluster.
2. Modify the inbound rules of the security group that the Apache Kafka service is associated with.

>     You must add the CIDR of the region where your TiDB Cloud cluster is located to the inbound rules. The CIDR can be found on the VPC Peering page. Doing so allows the traffic to flow from your TiDB cluster to the Kafka brokers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You must add the CIDR of the region where your TiDB Cloud cluster is located to the inbound rules. The CIDR can be found on the **VPC Peering** page. Doing so allows the traffic to flow from your TiDB cluster to the Kafka brokers.
```

> If your Apache Kafka service is in a GCP VPC that has no internet access, take the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Apache Kafka service is in a GCP VPC that has no Internet access, take the following steps:
```

Reviewer 2: According to [Capitalization of Internet - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capitalization_of_Internet), the spelling internet has become often used, as the word almost always refers to the global network; the generic sense of the word has become rare in non-technical writings. As a result, various [style manuals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Style_guide), including [The Chicago Manual of Style](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Chicago_Manual_of_Style), the [Associated Press](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press)'s [AP Stylebook](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AP_Stylebook), and the [AMA Manual of Style](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMA_Manual_of_Style), revised their formerly capitalized stylization of the word to lowercase internet in 2016.

### Kafka ACL authorization

To allow TiDB Cloud changefeeds to stream data to Apache Kafka and create Kafka topics automatically, ensure that the following permissions are added in Kafka:

- The `Create` and `Write` permissions are added for the topic resource type in Kafka.
- The `DescribeConfigs` permission is added for the cluster resource type in Kafka.

For example, if your Kafka cluster is in Confluent Cloud, you can see [Resources](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/kafka/authorization.html#resources) and [Adding ACLs](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/kafka/authorization.html#adding-acls) in Confluent documentation for more information.

## Step 1. Open the changefeed page for Apache Kafka

1. In the TiDB Cloud console, navigate to the **Clusters** page for your project.
2. Click the name of the cluster that you want to create a changefeed for.
3. Click the **Changefeed** tab.
4. Click **Sink to Apache Kafka**.

## Step 2. Configure the changefeed target

1. Under **Brokers Configuration**, fill in your Kafka brokers endpoints. You can use commas `,` to separate multiple endpoints.

> 2. Select your Kafka version. If you do not known that, use Kafka V2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select your Kafka version. If you do not known that, use **Kafka V2**.
```

Reviewer 2: The actual version provided on the UI is quite long. In this case, do we need to use bold text for Kafka V2?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79440533/187249321-c12ea841-baae-4ca3-a457-5790e2292f18.png)

> 2. Select your Kafka version. If you do not known that, use Kafka V2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select your Kafka version. If you do not know that, use Kafka V2.
```

3. Select a desired compression type for the stream data.

> 4. Enable the **TLS Encryption** option if your Kafka have enabled TLS encryption and you want to use TLS encryption for the Kafka connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enable the **TLS Encryption** option if your Kafka has enabled TLS encryption and you want to use TLS encryption for the Kafka connection.
```

5. Select the **Authentication** option according to your Kafka authentication configuration.

    - If your Kafka does not require authentication, keep the default option **Disable**.
    - If your Kafka requires authentication, select the corresponding authentication type, and then fill in the user name and password of your Kafka account for authentication.

6. Click **Next** to check the configurations you set and go to the next page.

## Step 3. Set the changefeed

1. In the **Data Format** area, select your desired format of Kafka messages.

>    - Avro is a compact, fast, binary data format with rich data structures, which is widely used in various flow systems. For more information, see [Avro data format](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-avro-protocol).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Avro is a compact, fast, and binary data format with rich data structures, which is widely used in various flow systems. For more information, see [Avro data format](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-avro-protocol).
```

   - Canal-JSON is a plain JSON text format, which is easy to parse. For more information, see [Canal-JSON data format](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-canal-json).

2. Enable the **TiDB Extension** option if you want to add TiDB-extension fields to the Kafka message body.

    For more information about TiDB-extension fields, see [TiDB extension fields in Avro data format](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-avro-protocol#tidb-extension-fields) and [TiDB extension fields in Canal-JSON data format](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-canal-json#tidb-extension-field).

> 3. If you select **Avro** as your data format, you will see some Avro specific configurations on the page, and you can fill in these configurations as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If you select **Avro** as your data format, you will see some Avro-specific configurations on the page. You can fill in these configurations as follows:
```

    - In the **Handle Decimal** and **Handle Bigint Unsigned** configurations, specify how TiDB Cloud handles the decimal and Bigint data types in Kafka messages.

>     - In the **Schema Registry** area, fill in your schema registry endpoints. If you enable **HTTP Authentication**, you also need to fill in the username and password for the schema registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - In the **Schema Registry** area, fill in your schema registry endpoints. If you enable **HTTP Authentication**, you also need to fill in the user name and password for the schema registry.
```

4. In the **Topic Distribution** area, select a distribution mode, specify a default Kafka topic name, and set the corresponding topic prefix, separator, and suffix.

>     The distribution mode controls how the changefeed creates Kafka topics, by tables, by databases, or cerating one topic for all changelogs. If you select **Avro** as your data format, you can only choose the **Distribute changelogs by table to Kafka Topics** mode in the **Distribute Mode** drop-down list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The distribution mode controls how the changefeed creates Kafka topics, by tables, by databases, or creating one topic for all changelogs. If you select **Avro** as your data format, you can only choose the **Distribute changelogs by table to Kafka Topics** mode in the **Distribute Mode** drop-down list.
```

   - **Distribute changelogs by table to Kafka partitions**

        If you want the changefeed to send Kafka messages of a table to one Kafka partition, choose this distribution method. The table name of a row changelog will determine which partition the changelog is sent to. This distribution method ensures table orderliness but might cause unbalanced partitions.

6. In the **Topic Configuration** area, configure the following numbers. The changefeed will automatically create the Kafka topics according to the numbers.

   - **Replication Factor**: controls how many Kafka servers each Kafka message is replicated to.
   - **Partition Number**: controls how many partitions exist in a topic.

7. Click **Next** to check the configurations you set and go to the next page.

## Step 4. Review the configurations

On this page, you can review all the changefeed configurations that you set.

If you find any error, you can go back to fix the error. If there is no error, you can click the check box at the bottom, and then click **Create** to create the changefeed.

> ## Step 5. Manage the changefeed

Reviewer: This section includes changefeed operations, not a necessary step of the whole procedure. Better make it an independent section. 
```suggestion
## Manage the changefeed
```

After a changefeed is created, you can navigate to the **Changefeed** tab of your TiDB cluster and click **Sink to Apache Kafka** to open the **Changefeed Detail** dialog.

In the **Changefeed Detail** dialog, you can manage the changefeed as follows:

> - Check the running state of the changefeed.
> - Click **Delete** to delete the changefeed.
> - Click **Pause** or **Resume** to pause or resume the changefeed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the running state of the changefeed.
- Delete the changefeed by clicking **Delete**.
- Pause or resume the changefeed by clicking **Pause** or **Resume**.
```

### Kafka ACL authorization

To allow TiDB Cloud changefeeds to stream data to Apache Kafka and create Kafka topics automatically, ensure that the following permissions are added in Kafka:

- The `Create` and `Write` permissions are added for the topic resource type in Kafka.
- The `DescribeConfigs` permission is added for the cluster resource type in Kafka.

For example, if your Kafka cluster is in Confluent Cloud, you can see [Resources](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/kafka/authorization.html#resources) and [Adding ACLs](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/kafka/authorization.html#adding-acls) in Confluent documentation for more information.

## Step 1. Open the changefeed page for Apache Kafka

1. In the TiDB Cloud console, navigate to the **Clusters** page for your project.
2. Click the name of the cluster that you want to create a changefeed for.
3. Click the **Changefeed** tab.
4. Click **Sink to Apache Kafka**.

## Step 2. Configure the changefeed target

1. Under **Brokers Configuration**, fill in your Kafka brokers endpoints. You can use commas `,` to separate multiple endpoints.
2. Select your Kafka version. If you do not know that, use Kafka V2.

> 3. Select a desired compression type for the stream data.
> 4. Enable the **TLS Encryption** option if your Kafka has enabled TLS encryption and you want to use TLS encryption for the Kafka connection.
> 5. Select the **Authentication** option according to your Kafka authentication configuration.
> 
>     - If your Kafka does not require authentication, keep the default option **Disable**.
>     - If your Kafka requires authentication, select the corresponding authentication type, and then fill in the user name and password of your Kafka account for authentication.
> 
> 6. Click **Next** to check the configurations you set and go to the next page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Enable the **TLS Encryption** option if your Kafka has enabled TLS encryption and you want to use TLS encryption for the Kafka connection.
4. Select the **Authentication** option according to your Kafka authentication configuration.

    - If your Kafka does not require authentication, keep the default option **Disable**.
    - If your Kafka requires authentication, select the corresponding authentication type, and then fill in the user name and password of your Kafka account for authentication.

5. Click **Next** to check the configurations you set and go to the next page.
```

Reviewer 2: @leoppro PTAL

Author: LGTM

6. In the **Topic Configuration** area, configure the following numbers. The changefeed will automatically create the Kafka topics according to the numbers.

   - **Replication Factor**: controls how many Kafka servers each Kafka message is replicated to.
   - **Partition Number**: controls how many partitions exist in a topic.

7. Click **Next** to check the configurations you set and go to the next page.

## Step 4. Review the configurations

On this page, you can review all the changefeed configurations that you set.

If you find any error, you can go back to fix the error. If there is no error, you can click the check box at the bottom, and then click **Create** to create the changefeed.

## Manage the changefeed

After a changefeed is created, you can navigate to the **Changefeed** tab of your TiDB cluster and click **Sink to Apache Kafka** to open the **Changefeed Detail** dialog.

In the **Changefeed Detail** dialog, you can manage the changefeed as follows:

- Check the running state of the changefeed.
- Delete the changefeed by clicking **Delete**.
- Pause or resume the changefeed by clicking **Pause** or **Resume**.

## Restrictions

> - Only one kafka changefeed of a TiDB cluster can be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For each TiDB Cloud cluster, you can create only one Kafka changefeed.
```

> - Do not support uploading self-signed TLS certificates to connect to Kafka brokers temporarily.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Currently, TiDB Cloud does not support uploading self-signed TLS certificates to connect to Kafka brokers.
```
